
MASTERING AGILE SCRUM PROJECT MANAGEMENT PMI

+ Whhy agile?

	. desire to gain knowledge
	. build a powerful arsenal
	. understand In's | Out's of AGILE

+ PMI Agile Domains
	
	. Agile principles and mindset (mentalidad)
	. Value driven delivery
	. Stakeholder engagement
	. Boosting team performance
	. Adaptative planning
	. Problem detection and resolution
	. Continuous improvement

+ What is AGILE project management?
	How would you define it? 
		what is your take on its definition? (cual es tu opinion sobre su definicion)
	
	. Agile .: Def: able to move quickly and easily;

		- Teams
		- Flexible
		- Intelligent
		- Interchangeable
		- Team dynamics and collaborate

+ Traditional Project Management Methods
	such as those touted by the Project Management Institute

	. Waterfall
	. PRINCE2

	** A good project manager should take the best from any tool, technique or process
   		that best fits the project's need

   	Demostration
   	---------------------------
   	. No one best way
   	. One-size-fits-all
   	. Comprehension of 
   		- advantages
   		- disadvantages
   	. Evaluate 
   		- Benefits
   		- Downfalls


   	+ Traditional Project Management

   		. Defining ALL the work that would need to be done
   		. Identify stakeholders
   			- expectations
   		. Formal agreement


   		+ Example Project

   			. Frequent conversations
   			. Reassessments made
   			. Work being performed
   				. aligned to everyone's needs
   				. adjusted as needed
   			. Knowledge of the worker
   			. Computer power

   		** The traditional requires sizble amounts of resources
   			financial, and labor. The cost of rework is minimal
   			in comparison. Projects such as this depend more on
   			the knowledge of the worker and the computer

         EXERCISE

         You are a project manager in the company.

         The company's executive team is seeing a trend for smaller divices
         that completely fit in the palm of one's hand.

         This surge in popularity is due to a competing phone company that
         released a glowing bluetooth of a phone that displays holographic
         content above it and when have a phone call, the phone fits onto
         your ear like a slick, space age bluetooth earpice.

         As the sales of the glowing bluetooth phone are skyrocketing, gobbling 
         up market share, and winning the praises of tech magazines and 
         declaring the firm as the brightest company in the industry, your
         company sets out to cash in on the trend.

         After months of market research and feasibility studies - technical
         and non-technical - the "power that be" decide to initiate a project
         that would add the "groundbreaking" new feature of being able to 
         squeeze your company's version of the tube phone to unlock it. 

         The engineers at your firm determine it possible to recognize the user's 
         hand by their hand size, pressure of the squeeze an the unique way 
         each hand would be defined as part of a unique squeeze.


+ Disadventages

   - pitfall (obstaculos)

      - use the agile method on projects unsuited to it
      - Agile projects are best suited for work consisting more of 
            "knowledge work" than project consisting more of 
            "physical work", such as manufacturing or capital projects.
      - reliance on stakeholders involvement.
         . Needing continual activity to keep the project moving correctly

+ Agile manifesto

   Heart of Agile project management

   . Guiding principle of agile project management.
      - Project Management Institute - Agile Certified Practitioner (PMI-ACP)

   + Principles

      1. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and 
         continuous delivery of valuable software.
      2. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile 
         processes harness changes to the customer's competitive advantage.
      3. Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a 
         couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale.
      4. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout
         the project.
      5. Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the enviroment
         and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.
      6. The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and
         within a development team is face-to-face conversation.

   + History
      . The Agile Manifesto started in the winter of 2001 at The Lodge at Snowbird resort in the Wasatch Mountains in Utah.
      . It started in the winter of 2001
      . 17 people gatherred (se reunieron) to talk and find common ground on the 
         best practices and methods around the emerging discipline of agile 
         project management.
      . the gathering (reunion) Utah borught (trajo) a few people to talk, respected
         styles in the software development industry. The styles represented were:
            . Extrem programming (xp)
            . Scrum
            . DSDM
            . Adaptive Software Development
            . Crystal
            . Feature-Driven development
            . Pragmatic programming
      . During the two days, the self-proclaimed "Agile Alliance" began to form an
         agreement and loose standardization (estandarizacion flexible) of the 
         agile project management methodology.
      . Defined the general, overaching purpose.
      . Established and documented the Agile Manifesto, its core values and principles.

      + Manifesto

         . Individuals and interactions over processes and tools
         . Working software over comprehensive documentation
         . Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
         . Responding to change over following a plan 

         The manifesto is keenly pointed at software development using agile methodologies,
         but you can apply the concept, its values, and its principles to any managed project.

            + Individuals and interactions
               . tools
                  - necessary to get work done
                  - do not mandate how things go
                  - should not dictate the solution
               . processes
                  - assistin making things more standardized and efficient.
                  - rigid or tie up innovation and flexibility, are antithesis
                  - too much or too through documentation is deterred
               . mantra
                  - only the documentation that is necessary
               . value statement
                  - policies and mechanisms followed in a agile project should not 
                     override the day-to-day interactions and abilities of the people
                     to operate in a flexible and agile manner.

            + Working software
               . documentation has inherent value
               . value is more of a reaction to engineering perspective
               . balance of sufficient documentation
                  . consider the primary objective to deliver a product to a customer

            + Customer collaboration
               . agile
                  - does not understand and plan every detail
                  - does not base contract stringently on those mappings
                  - flexibility
                  - interest in combining hte voice of the customer in the decisions and 
                     direction
                  - enables constant communication
                  - redefines when done is "done"

                  The desire of a client to change direction should not be viewed punitively.
                  The beauty of agile project management is its flexibility and its interest
                  in combining hte voice of the customer into the decisions anddirection that 
                  makes the approach so powerful.

                  - contract terms
                     . contracts rule
                        . connsider formulating the contract to best accommodate and encourage 
                           collaboration between agile teams and the customer.

                        "..it is better to do the right thing for the project than worry about 
                        being completely right.."

            + Responding to change over folling plan

               . agile style
                  - rigorous and ardous
                  - derail the nature of agile
                  - change
                  - keep progressing towards value

               . responding to change
                  - the value statement is not saying planning is unnecessary and we should
                     simply make things up as we go (a medida que avanzamos).
                  - planning is necessary, and a critical component of agile project management.
                  - since changes are expected, you plan heavily (fuertemente) for the short term
                     and lightly for the long term.

+ Agile manifest - principles

   1. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable
      software.
      
      - customer
      - internal / external
      - early delivery
         . delivering and/or sharing work-in-progress for critique by others
      - constant feedback
         . verifies the work is progressing as desired
      - welcome productive criticism

      The satisfaction of the needs of the customer is the highest priority of agile project management;
      really, this should be the primary objective for all project management.


   2. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the 
      customer's competitive advantage.

         The changes are welcome, even after a lot of work has been done.

         Traditional change management is bureaucratic to force the justification for change be thorough and
         leave a paper trail.

         With the voice of the customer tightly involved, they can see the project's progress, understand its
         advancement, and provide valid input for cahnge more meaningfully.

   3. Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to 
      the shorter timescale.

         - prototypes
         - proof of concept
         - ability to make more educated suggestions and requests

         Is ideal in terms of gathering feedback and impressions, and communicating visions, approaches, or
         areas of confusion.

         Getting regular checks more often is key

   4. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.

         . daily interactions
         . leveraging
            - perpesctives
            - input
            - feedback
         . requesting feedback
            - face-to-face

         The important stakeholders are those from the business, customer, or end user side.

   5. Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environmnet and support
      the need, and trust them to get the job done.

         - Utilizig smart and motivated people is more effective than almost any other tool or process out
           there. 

         - Manage knowledgeable workers
         - Modern worker
            - Do not want micromanaged elements
               - excessive paperwork
               - detailed project plans
               - top-down directed mandates
         * Creating a project space for individuals to:
            - grow
            - think
            - craft

      The trust and confidence in your teammates (compañeros de equipo) is powerful.
      Give everyone the support they need to succeed, and trust that they will. 

      Motivation
         - trust 
         - confidence
         - support needed to succeed
            - tools
            - resources
            - backing (apoyo)
            - provision of knowledge

   6. The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a
      development team is face-to-face conversation.

         - Written communications take time to write, and there are more opportunities for
            misinterpretation and details being lost in translation.
         - Holding face-to-face meetings can have their share of miscommunication, but the
            miscommunication is typically less when interacting in person.

   Conclusions

   Six principles

   1. Satisfy the customer
   2. Welcome changing requirements
   3. Deliver working software frequently
   4. Business people and developers must work together daily
   5. Build projects around motivated individuals
   6. Convey information to and within the development team

